# Nudging Recommendation Algorithms Increases News Consumption and Diversity on YouTube
This github repository contains the replication materials for the paper "Nudging Recommendation Algorithms Increases News Consumption and Diversity on YouTube," forthcoming in *PNAS NEXUS*, authored by Xudong Yu, Muhammad Haroon, Ericka Menchen-Trevino, and Magdalena Wojcieszak.

> Abstract: Recommendation algorithms profoundly shape users' attention and information consumption on social media platforms. This study introduces a computational intervention aimed at mitigating two key biases in algorithms by influencing the recommendation process. We tackle interest bias, or algorithms creating narrow non-news and entertainment information diets, and ideological bias, or algorithms directing the more strongly partisan users to like-minded content. Employing a sock-puppet experiment (N = 8,600 sock puppets) alongside a month-long randomized experiment involving 2,142 frequent YouTube users, we investigate if nudging the algorithm by playing videos from verified and ideologically balanced news channels in the background increases recommendations to and consumption of news. We additionally test if providing balanced news input to the algorithm promotes diverse and cross-cutting news recommendations and consumption. We find that nudging the algorithm significantly and sustainably increases both recommendations to and consumption of news and also minimizes ideological biases in recommendations and consumption, particularly among conservative users. In fact, recommendations have stronger effects on users’ exposure than users’ exposure has on subsequent recommendations. In contrast, nudging the users has no observable effects on news consumption. Increased news consumption has no effects on a range of survey outcomes (e.g., knowledge, participation, polarization, misperceptions), adding to the growing evidence of limited attitudinal effects of on-platform exposure. The intervention does not adversely affect user engagement on YouTube, showcasing its potential for real-world implementation. These findings underscore the influence wielded by platform recommender algorithms on users' attention and information exposure.

This README file provides an overview of the replications materials for the article. The Data section describes the datasets required for the analysis. Note that the data files are not in this repository; they are only available in OSF. The Code section summarizes the purpose of each R or python script.

## Data
## Code
